the Catalyst for leaving my job was
realizing that my work was being really
skilled and doing well at my work was
having an impact a detrimental impact on
our economy and specifically depriving
our government and probably some
governments around the world
um you know when dealing with
International clients depriving those
governments of their ability to raise
taxes the correct amount of Revenue to
invest in public services
okay so you did that for a few years a
good 10 years
10 years yeah and then you decided that
you didn't want to do that anymore yeah
after my road to Damascus moment so what
are you doing now
so I I basically started to get an idea
for an alternative form of
um wealth advice which is more
Progressive
which is all about supporting
individuals who have really strong
values and who have wealth want to do
something really powerful with it to
transform the world to try and solve
some of our most
um complex challenges as a society in a
global community
so essentially I set up the good
ancestor movement
and we work with private clients so
individuals and families we support them
with their wealth planning
um and we help them to kind of Center
redistribution so in the private wealth
industry which comprises you know
Private Client lawyers like myself
accountants different tax advisors
private bankers
that that whole industry is effectively
a system which is designed to perpetuate
wealth accumulation so this is kind of
underlying narrative which
um essentially legitimizes the continued
accumulation of wealth even if it's
excessive and kind of assumes that most
wealthy people want to keep accumulating
wealth at all costs
and the other narrative is that tax is
essentially synonymous with waste so tax
is essentially waste and we talk a lot
about tax efficiency and tax mitigation
strategies and that kind of thing and
it's all about reducing the amount of
tax that you could possibly be exposed
to as a wealthy person
so a good answer to me but it flips that
and essentially we help people
align their wealth with their values by
committing to kind of limit Place limits
on the amount of wealth that they have
during their lifetime
um think about radical redistribution
but also we support people to think
about how they align their behaviors
around tax with their values so a lot of
our clients are quite Progressive they
want to overpay tax some of them don't
take
um sort of tax relief some of them don't
have Isis and because they really
believe in the power of
um of Taxation you know it's the
lifeblood of the social contract as many
people say so that's what we do so you
you're trying to convince wealthy people
to pay more tax essentially I'm not
convincing anyone I I made a really
strategic Choice when I started the good
ancestor movement that I only wanted to
work with
wealthy individuals who kind of get this
stuff who are already concerned about
inequality and they're worried about
climate change they're worried about
what extreme wealth is doing to the
economy and so they're already on board
and they're already thinking around how
they want to minimize their wealth and
they're really kind of uncomfortable
about how much money they have they feel
uncomfortable about their tax position
they feel like they're not paying enough
tax so I'm really giving agency
um and knowledge
to kind of wealthy individuals who fit
that profile and if they want to go and
influence their peers and their families
and their networks that's up to them but
I'm not kind of doing that emotional
labor so
um it's a big change obviously what
you're doing yeah how have you found
that transition
um it's been huge for me actually I
think um the biggest thing for me is
that I learned very quickly that is it's
impossible to have this conversation
um and kind of de-politicize it you know
you can't de-politicize wealth
inequality like it's inherently
political
um it's a result of political choices
that have been made and continue to be
made
um and I'm not you know I'm someone that
was raised in quite a social social
justice-oriented family quite political
um and I have strong political views but
I wasn't particularly open about that
you know I'd never imagined that I'd be
talking in the media publicly about
wealth taxes wealth inequality
um and that's something that's kind of
part of the day-to-day role now and that
has taken quite an adjustment but you
know I really believe in the cause you
know we need to see economic Justice and
we have to kind of mobilize and organize
in order to do that and part of that
includes speaking about that publicly
yeah it's also I remember when I first
started talking publicly like the stuff
I've written is I'm quite open about my
sort of that I've made a lot of money
that I'm I'm a millionaire this kind of
stuff um
yeah it's strange at first because
obviously previously I wouldn't talk
about that kind of stuff but um
yeah have to do it I guess if that's
what you believe yeah and I think I
think we're really uncomfortable about
talking about wealth in in British
Society is is one of the great taboos
isn't it yeah but actually we we need to
talk about you know one of the things I
find really interesting is that the
economy is kind of treated as this
abstract
phenomenon like you know quite
mathematical kind of yeah very elitist
but actually could be quite exclusionary
yeah exactly we're the economists we do
the numbers yeah we tell you whether
it's working but we all have a
relationship to the economy don't we you
know the way that we spend the way that
we save what we choose to consume and
acquire I remember a big thing that sort
of got me thinking about this was I
don't know if you remembering in 2011.
just after the financial crisis we had
the situation that was quite similar in
many ways to what we're experiencing now
which is in many ways the economy the
economy was was said to be bouncing back
you know GDP growth was high
unemployment was falling
but we had a cost of living crisis like
we do now which was driven primarily by
like food and energy and um the media
would say like we've got a strong
economy about cost of living crisis
and I remember thinking at the time like
what an amazing way to describe an
economy right because
if people can't afford to live
how can that be a strong economy
and um we're seeing it again now it's
this sort of you know there's this
the Richer making more money they've
ever made in the past ordinary people
can't afford to eat and it's like well
there's nothing we can do and um
that's the problem that you come into
and you have this economic realm which
is just dominated by wealthy people and
a big part about this channel
is supposed to be about it's just to let
people know like this is what's
happening so that people can defend
their interests yeah and this is the
problem where we have
uh GDP growth domestic product as a
measure of
um you know the health of an economy a
country's economy
um when it doesn't you know all it does
is measure the total amount of kind of
yeah it's a total right it doesn't tell
you anything about well how are these
people doing versus how are those yeah
they have something like now where
simultaneously living standards of
ordinary people are really falling
quickly but living standards of the rich
are rising really quickly
the GDP and GDP has been rising GDP now
is higher than it was pre-crisis but
like other living standards are Ordinary
People higher than pre-covered no
they're collapsing you know that's the
problem you know the numbers just to
look at averages and
you know I'm an economics profession now
and when the economic expression is full
of rich people
then they think things are getting
better and they say the numbers are
getting better and the the experience of
ordinary people just gets totally
ignored yeah and this is I think this is
really important because
part of the problem is you know you've
you've got to tell the whole story and
we're only getting one side of of the
story you know when we see that GDP is
is growing yeah but we know that wealth
is not being evenly and equally
distributed we know that Prosperity
isn't being shared you know but we don't
hear about the experience of the people
who are on the losing side of GDP growth
what drives me mad is like I've been
I've been in economics now
from a lot of different angles in my
life right I studied at LSC I studied at
Oxford I worked in the city now I write
in economics media and I'm sort of
involved in like activist economics and
I've worked with people from think tanks
and um
every single one of these economic
spaces
has almost no people from a poor
background every single one of these
spaces so like every single space we
have in our society where people are
able to like speak about economics
publicly there's nobody there from a
poor background
and it just for me
it drives me mad because for them they
can it's all about abstractions yeah for
them you know what I mean but they don't
really know what's happening and I'm
well aware that now I'm a wealthy person
but I didn't grow up a wealthy person
and my my sister is not a wealthy person
my parents are not wealthy people you
know what I mean and the people I grew
up with they're not wealthy people but
then I mean that's the reason why I sort
of transitioned away from like writing
for the guardian and things like this
towards making a YouTube channel because
I feel like we've created this space
where nobody who's from that background
is allowed to speak about economics and
then most people are from ordinary
backgrounds and who are they going to go
to to get their advice yeah so it drives
me it drives me mad honestly if you you
I know you watch the video so you'll see
how I get about it yeah it's it's really
important to democratize access to
economics but also to to redefine it
essentially because because it's become
this abstraction people don't think
about economics when they go to the
supermarket when they're spending yeah
you know who's that money going that's
exactly what I want people to feel is
like your life is the economy yeah the
economy is about your life and if you
can't afford to put the heating on or if
you can't afford to feed your family or
you know a level of security above that
if you don't know how you're going to
get a house or how your kids are going
to get house or how they're going to get
Financial Security that is an economic
problem and you should be allowed to say
that as an economic problem you should
be able to demand that the economists
who work for the government and who work
in the media address those problems
realistically but yeah it's not
happening so um yeah I wanted to ask you
sort of
to talk a little bit about the economic
situation we're in now from your
perspective and you know whether that's
you personally or the people you know or
the people you're around you just
how do you feel about
the space we're in now economically and
what's happening what's really worrying
actually I think um I've been really
feeling it over the last couple of weeks
that this kind of heaviness around
um you know a lot about what you have
said repeatedly is that you know if we
don't start to tax wealth
and clothes begin to close the gap this
is an economic disaster and I'm starting
to see glimpses of what that disaster
could look like and it's when ordinary
people can't spend money in the real
economy and the economy just grinds to a
whole and I think we're starting to see
that now with
um with high inflation
which you've said
um it essentially acts as a tax on
Ordinary People an additional tax when
they've already had National Assurance
increased
um you know council tax tax has gone up
everything's gone up energy price has
gone up
and what happens if ordinary people
aren't able to afford to spend in the
real economy yeah you know that's really
worrying for all of us that's a problem
for all of us so I'm really concerned
about it I'm really concerned that um
the government is not listening to the
you know demands for taxes on wealth
um we urgently urgently need an overhaul
of our tax system for too long you know
in the current you know whether or not
you agree with
wealth taxes in principle I think
everyone has to acknowledge that we've
been living in this low interest rate
environment for such a long time
which has made lots of wealthy people
acquire assets like property
you know invest in stocks
um and we've seen asset price inflation
and it's just it's extreme wealth
concentration it's extreme
um wealth inequality that we're seeing
and we've got to we've got to address
the economic imbalance that we have now
otherwise as you always say is going to
be a disaster yeah what drives me mad is
the way so many people in the media and
in government talk about it as if it's
unavoidable and you know I've said it a
million times I'll say it again 450
billion pounds went from the government
to the rich in the last two and a half
years and I think quite equal to
government Minister said we we've come
we've given nine billion pounds to
support those who are struggling well
you give 450 billion pounds to the rich
then you give 9 billion pounds to
support people who are struggling you
know that money is there and it can be
used and you could increase your support
by
I think was that five thousand percent
it's 500 times more about 50 times more
five thousand percent you can increase
your support if you were to take this
money back
um
okay so one of the questions we get most
on the channel is
what can I do
um so I want to ask you what what would
you like people to do and that can be
you know I don't know if you want people
to get involved in your project you're
doing or other ways you think people can
can help avoid this disaster yeah I
think one thing that I mean you often
talk about this yourself is you know
it's the power of community you can you
see what happens when people come
together and they start raising their
voices and demanding change and I've I
I'm amazed that the streets are not
already burning you know I'm amazed and
I think it's probably because people are
you know everyone's just trying to
survive the system aren't they you know
they're trying to hold on to their jobs
maybe find better paying jobs
um and you know trying to pay child care
and so we're all kind of distracted and
then you know I think the the default
reaction is to consume in order to numb
some of the feelings that come up and
you know the panic when actually what we
need to do is channel that into action
collectively
um and and you know start talking about
wealth inequality you know make it an
issue in the public domain you know
we've got to raise public Consciousness
yeah this is unacceptable we live in the
fifth most advanced economy in the whole
world and we've got more food banks than
McDonald's in the UK I mean yeah a
couple of weeks ago there was um a
hospital that
um or a few hospitals that have started
food banks for their workers because
they can't afford to feed their families
we shouldn't be accepting this kind of
stuff you know in in the fifth most
advanced economy in the whole world yeah
I think it's interesting that that's
what you come out with this community
because this is a it's a thing I've been
thinking about more and more
which is you know if you look at what's
happening now in the economy
the Rich has done unbelievably well in
the last two two and a half years
unbelievably well they've you know
I've said it a million times right it's
the biggest ever increasing wealth you
know even in this last year there's been
a further increase you know we saw in
the times riches which came out recently
um
and
Ordinary People are increasingly
struggling we're not just talking about
the bottom 10 20 we're talking about
like most people are seeing their lives
in some way really materially impacted
right so what you're seeing here is
pretty obviously if you think about it
what you'd expect to see if you have a
sudden and big increase in inequality
which is rituals about to get much
better and the rest of us struggle and
there's a question here of like why do
we accept this why do people accept this
right like why and I think a problem
with it is what you say which is we've
kind of convinced people that your job
is to take care of yourself and to take
care of your family yeah
but we've also created a system where
continually wealth is being transferred
from the masses to the rich which is
essentially it's sort of like
it makes it harder and harder and harder
for the individual to take care of
themselves and take care of their family
but
we've trained individual people that you
have to take care of yourself and your
family yeah whilst we're continually
rigging the game to make it impossible
it's like we're sucking the oxygen out
of the room and we're saying just try
harder to breathe you know what I mean
but if you don't change the systemic
problem then eventually family after
family after family is going to fall off
the bottom and I think
the only way an individual person
can take care of themselves in their
family the long term in that situation
is to unite with other families and say
listen we need to change the system here
because the oxygen is being sucked up so
I think sort of this is why I'm saying
in a lot of my videos you need to come
together you need to come together you
know because and you know you see
increasingly in the media
trying to drive division between people
from the north and people from the South
and between people of different
ethnicities and between people of
different cultures and even between men
and women you know you try and see
divisions being
being driven by the media and I feel
that's because they know that if people
were to actually come together and say
look at what's happening here they would
agree that we need to tax the Richmond
and make life better for Ordinary People
yeah I mean um is it Thomas piketti who
says is basically saying that we're
going backwards towards 19th century
levels of inequality yeah which is
terrifying and you know we all know what
happens
when societies become horribly unequal
it's bad for democracies it destabilizes
democracies it's not healthy for
societies to be
drastically unequal
yeah well I mean this is exactly what
this channel is about to let people know
and to let people know that it's not
whilst it is not good for my moral
perspective it is affecting your family
this is why you can't get a house that's
why I can't get Financial Security and
it doesn't have to be this way yes which
is on that point I want to come to the
last thing which is basically like okay
things are not good things are getting
worse
but I want to give people a message
perhaps of how things can get better so
so do you think there's a way which we
can start moving Society to a direction
where things are getting better and
we're moving towards positive progress
yeah I mean I think uh you know I
thought it's a bit about public
Consciousness and engagement in you know
not giving up and not accepting that
this is okay
um you talked a bit about you it's all
on us as individuals that is a very
powerful narrative that has been
cultivated by particular sections of I
guess of the political Elite and as
you know it's very strong culture but we
need to to learn to cooperate together
as communities and one thing I feel
really strongly about is empowering
people to
um be active citizens you know write
write to your MP harass your MP that's
what they're there for you know learn to
make Freedom of Information requests you
know get the get the receipts you know
yeah
um you know you can you're able to to
write to lots of different public bodies
and make make freedom information on top
of that is you know because some people
might write to MP and you know they
might not get the responses they want
but on top of that you need to build
those connections within your community
within your family the people you work
with because
ultimately that is
the power of Ordinary People yeah is
that there's more of them and if
if those connections get built people
will realize that listen we're all
getting hit by this you know everyone in
the bottom sort of 90 is getting hurt by
this and things are getting harder and
harder and harder generation after
generation so if we have those
connections
and people realize we're in this
together
then
that'll be our power yeah and I think
there's so much power in social
movements as well like when you think
about it
there was a time in life where I
wouldn't have had a bank account because
I wouldn't have been allowed one in my
own name I wouldn't have been able to
vote
we didn't have an NHS it was like a
radical Marxist idea you know
yeah we can really change stuff and
those things were yeah those things were
achieved by poor people coming together
and demanding them you know and I think
it's worth people remembering that you
know 70 years ago
the poor people of this country demanded
housing Education Health Care you know
for anyone who is
going to work and and they got it you
know we can still have that now so um I
think it's possible and I wouldn't do
this if I didn't think it's possible you
know like you I left a job that was a
well-paid job because I think we can
make things better so yeah no it's
eminently possible I think it's all
about mindset we've got a this is gonna
be a long game we really need each other
um to encourage each other and support
each other as as we kind of resist you
know so yeah the future's bright
hopefully if people come together it can
be
um I think that's pretty much done um
good answer to some movement Stephanie
Robbie if people want to follow you is
there anything they should do yeah they
can follow me on Twitter I'm at Steph
underscore Robbie okay and um I think
that's all thank you very much for the
work that you're doing and um yeah if we
need any more people to come in there
let the fans know what's happening with
the super rich I hope you'll get on
again sometime thank you very much for
coming on thanks Gary thanks for having
me
okay good
nice
but it's it's about coming back to the
the issue that it's about the system the
system is this way by Design and that's
what we continually have to change and
the system wants you to think it's your
fault individually and then it's on you
as an individual but we have to change
the system and we can only do that
through you know political action it's
about the system but it's also about
power like if you create a setup of
power where like all of the power is in
this one percent and the bottom 70 80
are basically no power well if you play
a game a competitive game with no power
you will lose the game but we still do
live in a democracy that 70 80 can come
together and say well no let's change
the rules let's change the balance of
power yeah let's give ourselves as a
group a chance so you know the first
they need to know they can change the
rules that the rules can be changed
because yeah we operate as if the rules
are fixed yeah and this is a good
question actually because you know I
talk about taxing the rich and back when
I first started doing this people just
come back and say oh you shouldn't tax
them because blah blah blah it's not
good for the economy now what comes back
is you can't tax them because they'll
leave so this is a good question from
someone who has some tax background do
you think it is possible to tax the rich
I think it's possible to tax the rich
but because again it's all by Design I
think there are there are ways of you
know lots of people do have UK assets
um which might be tied up in various
kind of offshore structures but there
are ways of taxing them there are ways
of creating uh transparency so that you
look through structures or
um you the the the the law can be
designed to to tax wealth again it's all
about design and it's about political
will I think one thing that was
Illuminating for me is we have this kind
of debate going around or you can't tax
the rich they'll leave they'll leave you
contacts to reach
suddenly we decided we want to tax Roman
Abramovich one of the richest men in the
world okay Annie you know
he [__] off to wherever he went right
but Chelsea Football Club is still in
Chelsea and don't disappear can't take
it with him and then and what happened
it was he lost it 100 so I think this is
a good demonstration that you know
ultimately you know rich people are rich
people they're not magicians these guys
are not Gandalf you know if we want to
tax them we can tax them yeah and I
think it's
I think it's the you know if you want to
ask why don't we tax them you might also
want to ask why do we have a chancellor
who is the 220 second richest man in the
country and his father knows one of the
richest men in the world you know Maybe
you know is he going to want to tax the
super rich yeah I think we can 100 yeah
I mean another thing um I don't know if
you notice I compared uh this year's tax
list so that the list of Britain's like
largest tax contributors with the
previous years uh rich list the 2021
rich list very little overlap in the top
ten when you look at the top 10 richest
individuals and families yeah that's
true some of them do pay tax and some of
them don't so you know yeah but but also
you know it was someone who wasn't in
the top 10 that was like the largest
contributor so it's just you know it's
interesting you know we should be
critiquing and interrogating
this kind of you know these kinds of
levels of wealth and who is contributing
to the economy and to
the state yeah and unfortunately the
media don't question it no enough so we
have to we have to start asking them and
the viewers have the question as well
because ultimately it's ordinary family
is like losing out and we're seeing that
moment yeah yeah
I'm happy I'm just gonna last one or two
more questions okay you don't feel like
are you sure yeah yeah
he's lost this question I did I lost my
question for you
um it was too spicy
um so we can tax them yeah whether or
not we can actually tax them of course
it's so frustrating though exactly what
so it was a follow-up on what you said
that the biggest contributors are not
actually the highest earners and then
quite often Gary gets comments like well
why don't you just pay more tax
and it's like this shouldn't be a
voluntary tax code that's not how we fix
things like we yeah I mean it's
interesting your choice of word as well
because you said the highest earners
it's not necessarily people that are
earning you know they're owning assets
and their assets have shot up in value
so I know quite a few people who during
the pandemic years their portfolio of
Investments went up 20 25 you know
um and okay maybe just before the
pandemic there was a bit of a uh there
was a dip but most people have made you
know most very wealthy people have done
quite well out of the pandemic I heard
the average billionaire in the US
doubled their wealth yeah I mean it's no
coincidence in the in the UK this year
when you look at the rich list 177
billionaires which is up six from 2021
and is the highest level of billionaires
on record
there's no coincidence that that's
happened after pandemic what drives you
mad is that it never gets put and put
next to the fact that I know ordinary
people can't afford to eat it's just
like you know yeah if you put those two
things next to each other
how obvious does it become yeah that the
way to solve this is to tax those super
rich people more and yeah it just
doesn't
it blows my mind well I mean it doesn't
it doesn't because I know how this world
works and I know that it's wealthy
people who are in a lot of positions of
power but you know you put those two
things next to each other yeah that you
know next year seriously tens of
millions of people in this country will
have to choose between turning the
heating on and eating food and at the
same time the biggest ever increase in
millionaire billionaire well you know
you don't need to be a genius to figure
out what needs to be done here and it
for some reason
the political parties are not doing it
so it needs to be a movement from us it
does it yeah
um
yeah yeah that's fine
so stuffy is wonderful What You Do by
the way what you've done your career
change
um
I think you said something about you
managed to take off I don't want to
misquote you but you managed to take on
some
quiet one before is that correct no I
haven't
um I haven't directly transferred any
any clients over from previously they're
quite the client my current client base
is quite different
in in the sense that they're very values
oriented where a lot of my clients were
kind of quite mainstream traditional
um wealth holders yeah I mean it must
have been so difficult for you to make
that decision but did you get any like
Kickback or
any
did people try and discourage you in
your previous clients your previous
employers for example or even now when
you're seeking clients do you get
yeah it's a good question I mean I I had
really good relationships with my team
and my you know my previous firm and I I
honestly I used to skip into work I
loved my job honestly but it it became
untenable for me I couldn't stay doing
that job because I was in direct
conflict with my values you know and and
what I was doing was fundamentally
incompatible with the world that I
wanted to see you know fairer Society
um
so it was it was a difficult decision
and I think on an ongoing basis you know
I I still have good relationships with
the people I used to work with and you
know obviously I've chosen to pursue a
path that is in alignment with their
values and I don't want that to be as if
I'm judging them for what they do but at
the same time you know I have made a
very conscious choice to pursue a
different path because I saw that I was
directly in conflict with my own values
so it's uncomfortable but I think the
thing is with a lot of this stuff around
the economy it is uncomfortable but we
have to you know we have to
ultimately I think pursue a life that is
in alignment with our own values around
what you know what kind of society do we
want to be living in what kind of future
do you want your children to have your
grandchildren you know even if you don't
have kids you know
what kind of world do you want to live
in
I mean you're clearly not one to tell
your previous college
but is it just you that feels like this
like almost like in the economic
profession of the Gary sometimes it
feels like he's just here but when you
speak to him I think he says there is a
bit of a consensus now but then due to
the nature of the jobs people are almost
tracked in their job they can't really
speak out for me because it's similar in
in the field that you well this is part
of the issue right you know
it people in in our jobs we
you know earned higher than the average
salary you know many of us did quite
well
um but
that you know the salaries enabled us to
take out mortgages and you know people
become trapped I think in a particular
lifestyle and so even if they do find
that they're coming into conflict with
their own values or or they're beginning
to question stuff I think there's a
level of
um you know they of like cognitive
dissonance basically where they they
feel that they're
they acknowledge the fact that they're
coming into conflict but they're they're
just going to keep doing what they're
doing because they kind of have to you
know if someone told me that Nursery
costs are like 1800 pounds a month
you know that's before you put food on
the table and paid your mortgage
so
it's very difficult people find
themselves in a really difficult
position
um I do think there's definitely you
know advisors that have reached out to
me that are interested in what I'm doing
and are beginning to question their own
work and at least wanting you know the
very minimum to to be able to create
space for
um a new kind of wealth stewardship
which doesn't isn't aggressively kind of
tax avoidant and doesn't Focus only on
the continued accumulation of wealth so
they're kind of reassessing the purpose
of wealth which has traditionally been
to accumulate for private gain and for
future generations and actually there's
like a much broader
um much broader considerations around
you know
benefiting
the public and you know extending that
you know who gets the benefit of of
wealth and
um and how sustainable
it is to keep accumulating wealth
because it's it's becoming a systemic
risk extreme extreme wealth inequality
is is a systemic risk I think a lot of
the people I used to work with they're
sort of you know their job is to analyze
the economy and especially if they
worked with me they they've seen my
predictions for like 10 years now and my
predictions be right for 10 years so
it's kind of hard to discount it so a
lot of them are basically come around to
the idea like
okay like things are broken and but they
they tell themselves well I can't do
anything to change it but at the same
time I think they start to realize now
you know these are people who are
focusing on Building Wealth for the next
10 20 30 years but the current system we
have of making the rich like rapidly
rapidly much much richer and the mass is
rapidly rapidly much much poorer it's
like obviously politically unsustainable
so it becomes inevitable that we will
get like significant political changes
you know what I mean and it's not
impossible that you'll get the kind of
political changes we saw in the 1930s
you know what I mean you know you can't
just impoverish the message without
giving them anything back and it's
so I think even for the wealthy you know
it starts to be like well what's
happening now is actually not even
secure for us because you know
it's I don't like to say it but it's
inevitable now that there is going to be
political turmoil in the next
in the next 10 or even to be honest two
years the way that things are going
but um
these people are comfortable they've got
comfortable lives and I think ultimately
you know some of these people you know
one of the one of my former colleagues
joined Patrick millionaires you know but
um
ultimately these are the guys who are
not on the sharp end of it you know so
the reason I do what I do is because I
want ordinary people to come back and
force some sort of positive change
because if you don't get positive change
you will get a negative change but you
know
some changes are never really going to
happen you know I think you know we will
see that and I'm out there fighting so
that it's it's good because if it's not
good it'll be bad
really encouraging answer but it's just
I don't know it's discouraging sometimes
it feels like these are just single
voices yeah but you know it's
and you mentioned about getting
movement
like what other movements are there to
get behind about but you know that's why
I did this if there was another movement
for me to get behind there would be no
Gary's economics I did this because this
is we I need to do something that's
going to actually bring Ordinary People
in understand what's happening and act
and like get them active coming together
to like false positive change but you
know
one thing I want to say is like I want
people to get depressed you know I know
the situation is bad but look I'm doing
everything I can but most people I can
afford to do this and do this unpaid
most people can't you know so I think
people need to work out like where am I
looking if you're just struggling to pay
the bills then struggle do what you can
support your family that has to be our
priority number one and it's when you
have a little bit extra time that you
you get behind you support the message
you share the message you build bunch of
your community
um you can't beat yourself up you know
what I mean I wouldn't be doing this if
I had a family to take care of that I
couldn't afford to take care of you know
what I mean not many people are in this
situation where they have the money
where they have the time
um I mean sharing the video sharing this
video is gonna help right yeah we all
play different parts in the system in
the movement and you know some of us
will carry a heavier burden for other
people
um but but sharing this talking about it
actually
you know keeping it on the public agenda
that's part of the movement yeah I think
I think like
for most people who are just trying to
make things work right now I wouldn't
ask anything more than support share
with your friends speak with your
friends because I know things are harder
I wouldn't offer more than that and in
that that is enough you know I mean if
you are somebody who has more to
contribute you know I mean you have some
special connections or you have some
extra time then you can try and do more
but I like you know
you just do what you can't that's it you
do what you can you know what I mean
yeah
you're sorry no no and obviously you do
a lot to him won't make any videos
critical piece of movement
infrastructure honestly me do is so
important let me beat yourself up man
you do you do your bit
it's just
it's just depressing I don't know how
I don't know how he's not like killing
Peter pressed I know
sometimes borderline
um but something you actually said
earlier like I think you said you were
like surprised you Vlog the streets are
burning yeah I was like should I be
thinking down I think people have been
beaten down a little bit unfortunately I
see it no because people are just trying
to survive capitalism they're just
trying to survive
and then when you know consumption and
consumerism is a pacifier yeah right
because we want to feel good about
ourselves think oh I don't want to cook
so I'm just going to order you know
deliveroo or I really feel like
um going to say tomorrow you know
whatever you know going to the casino
and then what are they doing they're
putting more money back in the system
towards wealthy people because who owns
the stuff and I would encourage ordinary
and I know like if you can save up money
and buy assets you should try and do it
and I know that's I say I feel like I've
got strong emotions on both sides
because I know how difficult that is and
I don't want to make people feel worse
at the same time if you're struggling to
do that understand that the system is
making that happen and it's not personal
failing on you but yeah I would
encourage Ordinary People and poor
people to do anything you can to protect
your assets of yourself your family or
Community 100 yeah and do what you can
like you know paying into your pension
and
um yeah making the most of the the small
things that are available some people
are even you know I saw something about
like lots of single parents clubbing
together to buy a property together and
yeah that might not be for everyone but
for someone who wants that stability but
just crucially if you're struggling to
build those assets up understand that
this is a systemic issue and lots of
people are struggling needs to be made
increasingly it's based on what family
you're born into you know what I mean so
if you come from a poor family and
you're just being able to if you're just
keeping your head above water sustaining
your family you should be proud of that
because it's not easy it's increasingly
difficult yeah so it's like I'm talking
to these two things I want to make
people feel proud of what they're
achieving and again that is often rigged
against them but also encourage them to
like do what you can to protect the
interests of yourself your family or
community and understanding that that
means that it's not easy it means doing
your bit yourself for your family but
also stepping forward to build that
community
that we will use as a basis for positive
change